##### VPC - Foundational Infrastructure Element 
###### 1. Dedicated, logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud. 
###### 2. Within this VPC , you have full control over the network architecture , enabling you to design,
######    configure and manage your network resources.
###### 3. AWS VPC is a virtual network that allows you to define your IP address range, create subnets and manage network settings. 
###### 4. It is a gated community within a city. 
######    Each VPC is self contained and has its own rules and regulations. 
######    The AWS resources within each neighborhood can communicate with each other freely but there are gates (security groups and NACLs) controlling who can enter or exit the neighborhood.

####      Key Components of AWS VPCs
###### 1. IP addressing - Define IP address range.You cannot have two houses with the same street name and number.
###### 2. Subnets - Subdivisions with VPC , located on a specific availability zones. Subnets are like streets and each house must have a unique number on the street. 
###### 3. Route tables - dictate traffic flow between subnets and control how traffic is routed within the VPC. It is like a sign post.
###### 4. Security Groups - Virtual firewalls allowing you to manage inbound and outbound traffic
###### 5. Network Access Control Lists (NACLs) - Additional layer of network security by acting as packet filters, governing traffic at the subnet levels. 

###### 1. NACLs and Security Groups - Control Flow of Packets using the following methods
###### 1A. Stateful
######     Stateful means that the security control remembers which packets and interactions were allowed past in one direction and allows them back through the other way.
###### 1B. Stateless 
###### 1C. Stateless means that the security control has no memory of previous events and therefore a packet that has been let past in one direction will not be let back through unless specifically authorized.

######    1. Security Groups are stateful and therefore need to create inbound rules to handle these.Outbound rules is automatically authorized with the same criteria.
######    2. Security Groups act as the first line of defence, allowing customers to meticulously specify which types of traffic are permitted to access their resources. 
######    3. Security Group act at the instance level and can be configured to act over more than one subnet at any time. 

######    1. NACLs are stateless and therefore inbound and outbound rules must be created. 
######    2. Granular control over the flow of traffic entering and exiting the subnets. 
######    3. They do not remember which service sent the inbound request and hence it is  *stateless*. You need to define *specific outbound rules* or *all outbound rules is blocked*. 

######  Security Groups
###### 1. Scope of Operation - Operate at the instance level, associated with individual EC2 instances within a VPC. Control inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level.
###### 2. Rule Evaluation - Stateful: Rules are evaluated based on the state of the connection. If you allow inbound traffic from a specific IP, the corresponding outbound traffic is automatically allowed. Rules are evaluated independently for each instance
###### 3. Rule Types - Allow specifying which IP addresses or other SGs can communicate with the instances. Rules focus on allowing or denying specific traffic sources and destinations.
###### 4. Default behaviour - *All inbound traffic is denied by default*, unless *explicitly allowed*. *Outbound traffic is allowed by default*

##### NACLs
######  1. Scope of Operation - Operate at the subnet level, associated with subnets within a VPC. Control traffic entering and exiting entire subnets, affecting all instances within that subnet.
###### 2. Rule Evaluation - Stateless: Rules are evaluated based on defined criteria, separately for inbound and outbound. Rules must be defined for both directions and are evaluated in a sequential order
###### 3. Rule Types - Provide fine-grained control, allowing rules based on IP addresses, port ranges, and protocols. Used for detailed network security requirements.
###### 4. Default behaviour - Both *inbound and outbound* traffic are *allowed by default*. Custom rules must be created to restrict traffic as needed.

