# Build your VPC and Launch a Web Server

#### Requirements
1. Create your own VPC with customized network
2. Create two security groups for your EC2 instances
3. Configure and customize an EC2 instance to run a web server and launch it into VPC

#### Objectives
1. Create a VPC
2. Create subnets
3. Configure Security Groups
4. Launch an EC2 instance into a VPC

#### VPC Creation
1. Click on Create a VPC
2. Provide a Name MYLABVPC
3. In the IPV4 CIDR - Enter the IP 10.0.0.0/16
4. Rest are all default 
5. Click on Create VPC
6. Click on *Your VPCs* and the VPC is created successfully

#### Subnet Creation > Public and Private
1. Click on Subnets
2. Click on Create Subnets
3. From the VPC Drop Down - Select the VPC Created > MYLABVPC
4. Provide a Subnet Name - MyPublicSubnet
5. Select Availability Zone as US East - us-east-1a (Depends on your zone where you are creating)
6. In the IPV4 VPC CIDR Block - Enter the IP 10.0.0.0/24
7. Refer the Link for CIDR Calculation > https://www.site24x7.com/tools/ipv4-subnetcalculator.html
8. The Line 1 > 2nd Column > Represent the subnet provided as in step 6. The CIDR notation will be 24. Refer the CIDR Notation block in the webpage.
9. Click on Create. The public subnet is created.

10. *Create a Private Subnet*
11. Steps are the same as above. Only the Name and Subnet will differ.
12. Click on Create Subnet
13. From the VPC Drop Down - Select the VPC Created > MYLABVPC
14. Provide a Subnet Name - MyPrivateSubnet
15. Select Availability Zone as US East - us-east-1a (Depends on your zone where you are creating)
16. Refer the Link for CIDR Calculation > https://www.site24x7.com/tools/ipv4-subnetcalculator.html
17. In the IPV4 VPC CIDR Block - Enter the IP 10.0.1.0/24
18. The Line 2 > 2nd Column > Represent the subnet provided as in step 17. The CIDR notation will be 24. Refer the CIDR Notation block in the webpage.
19. Click on Create Subnet
20. Navigate to "Your VPCs" and the custom subnets created is available ? Public and Private.

##### Now we are going to create a NAT Gateway and it is going to allow the private subnet to reach out to the internet.

21. 


